The following method describe the necessary steps in order to perform the proposed MiniHydro Assessment for a region.
The following layers are necessary before the analysis starts.

1) Country boundary layer
2) River Layer
3) Elevation Layer (prefered a Fill version of it)
4) Discharge layer
5) The sample points layer (from RivEX)
6) The "link sites within a layer" layer deriving from RivEX
7) The "source to sample points" layer from RivEX

(Just to mention that all the layers are already projected because that is the only way RivEX can actually work)

Step 1:
Use extract values to points function in order to get the elevation to sample points. So use the layers (3) & (5).
Do this two times so that you have two layers with the same vlues, namely hereafter (8) and (9).

Step 2:
Use extract values to points function in order to get the discharge to sample points. So use the layers (4) & (5).
This layer is called hereafter as (10).

Step 3:
Join the layers (6) and (8) using the To_site column on (6) and the Sample_ID column on (8). The elevation values will be
assigned to the To_site points.

Step 4:
Join the layers (6) and (9) using the From_site column on (6) and the Sample_ID column on (9). The elevation values will be
assigned to the From_site points.

Step 5:
Open the table of layer (6) and select to add a new column. Name it Head and define it as Long integer. Click ok. Right 
click on the column and select field calculator. Find the correstonding elevation column for To_site and extract the 
elevation column for From_site. The available head will be calculated at all the From_site points.

Step 6:
Join the layers (6) and (10) using the From_site column on (6) and the Sample_ID column on (10). The discharge values will be
assigned to the From_site points.

Step 7:
Open the table of layer (6) and select to add a new column. Name it PowerP and define it as Float. Click ok. Right 
click on the column and select field calculator. Find the correstonding discharge column from step 6 and multiple with the 
Head column calculated before and the number 4.9725 which is explained.....
The available power will be calculated in kW at all the From_site points.

Step 8:
Join the layer (5) with the layer (6) using Sample_id column on (5) and From_site column on (6). From all the sample points, these
that will be assigned a value would have a previous point. Select them and create a new layer. The power potential for these points 
is calculated according to their discharge value and the head deriving from the elevation difference between them and their previous
point.

Step 9:
Use extract values to points function in order to get the elevation to the source points. So use the layers (3) & (7).
The new layer in recognised hereafter as (11).

Step 10:
Join the layers (7) and (11) using the Source_id column on (7) and the Source_id column on (11). The source elevation values will be
assigned.

Step 11:
Join the layers (7) and (8) using the site_id column on (7) and the Sample_ID column on (8). The elevation values will be
assigned to the site_id points.

Step 12:
Open the table of layer (7) and select to add a new column. Name it Head and define it as Long integer. Click ok. Right 
click on the column and select field calculator. Find the correstonding elevation column for the sources and extract the 
elevation column for the sites. The available head will be calculated at all the site_id points.

Step 13:
Join the layers (7) and (10) using the Site_id column on (7) and the Sample_ID column on (10). The discharge values will be
assigned to the site_id points.

Step 14:
Open the table of layer (7) and select to add a new column. Name it PowerP and define it as Float. Click ok. Right 
click on the column and select field calculator. Find the correstonding discharge column from step 13 and multiple with the 
Head column calculated before and the number 4.9725 which is explained.....
The available power will be calculated in kW at all the site_id points.

Step 15:
The layer 5 with the sample points has assigned power potential values only for the points that do have a previous points,
which normally should be the half or 1/3 of the total points. Select all the rest points that have no assigned power value.
Create a new layer from the selected and same this layer in a file, using export data.. This layer is named hereafer as (12).

Step 16:
Insert layer (12) on the map.Join the layer (12) with the source layer (7) using Sample_id column on (12) and Site_id column on (7).
All these points do not have previous point. So the power potential is selected according to the elevation difference between them
and their corresponding source points.

After step 8 and step 16 there are two sets of points. The points that have a previous point and all the others that do not and rely 
on their source. These two layers should be combined.

In order to reduce the complexity, it is up to the user to select by attributes and keep the points of interest. In this case mini 
hydro points would mean to keep the points with potential estimated power between 100 kW and 1000kW, while small hydro would allow 
values between 1000kW and 10000kW.

These selections could be saved as new layers upon interest. 









